README.md, before:

# Docker Shortcuts

This repo contains bash script shortcuts for common Docker commands.  

## Usage

To use...

### Clone this repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/elrayle/docker_shortcuts.git
```

### Add the scripts directory to your executable path

For example: Assumes that the repo was cloned to $HOME/bin

Edit $HOME/.bash_profile
```
# add docker shortcut scripts
export PATH="$HOME/bin/docker_shortcuts/scripts:${PATH}"
```

This adds the docker_shortcuts to the front of the PATH env var.  You can add it to the end if you prefer.

Execute the following to activate the change to PATH

```
$ source ~/.bash_profile
```

### List all docker shortcut commands

```
$ dhelp
``` 

## Common command combos...

### Starting composition and checking what is running

In a project where you have a docker-compose.yml, use the following to start all containers as described in the docker-compose.yml file.

```
dcpup
```

Check to see which images, containers, and services are loaded and running...

```
dls
```

Expect images to include all the images listed in the docker-compose.yml file
Expect running containers to include all containers described in the docker-compose.yml file
Expect all containers to include all loaded containers whether or not they are running.
Expect services to include all services described in the docker-compose.yml file

### Cleaning up

Starting/stopping containers and building images can create a messy environment.  If you want to start fresh, do the following to completely remove all containers and images.

#### Shut down compositions

Check which images, container, and serices are loaded and running.

```
dls
```

Start the cleanup by using docker-compose to clean up its images and containers.

```
dcpdown
```

Check which images, container, and serices are still loaded and running.

```
dls
```

#### Remove remaining containers

Stop all containers including running containers.

```
dcpruneall
```

Check all containers are stopped

```
dls
```

Expect the running containers and all containers lists to be empty.


#### Remove images

Remove all images without container (which should be all images at this point).

```
diprune
```

Check all images were removed

```
dls
```

Expect all lists to be empty.

Commit message:

Add warning about destructive nature of the cleanup process.

README.md, after:

# Docker Shortcuts

This repo contains bash script shortcuts for common Docker commands.  

## Usage

To use...

### Clone this repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/elrayle/docker_shortcuts.git
```

### Add the scripts directory to your executable path

For example: Assumes that the repo was cloned to $HOME/bin

Edit $HOME/.bash_profile
```
# add docker shortcut scripts
export PATH="$HOME/bin/docker_shortcuts/scripts:${PATH}"
```

This adds the docker_shortcuts to the front of the PATH env var.  You can add it to the end if you prefer.

Execute the following to activate the change to PATH

```
$ source ~/.bash_profile
```

### List all docker shortcut commands

```
$ dhelp
``` 

## Common command combos...

### Starting composition and checking what is running

In a project where you have a docker-compose.yml, use the following to start all containers as described in the docker-compose.yml file.

```
$ dcpup
```

Check to see which images, containers, and services are loaded and running...

```
$ dls
```

Expect images to include all the images listed in the docker-compose.yml file
Expect running containers to include all containers described in the docker-compose.yml file
Expect all containers to include all loaded containers whether or not they are running.
Expect services to include all services described in the docker-compose.yml file

### Cleaning up

Starting/stopping containers and building images can create a messy environment.  If you want to start fresh, do the following to completely remove all containers and images.

***WARNING: This process gets rid of everything including running containers and images with containers.  I use it to clean up my dev machine when I want to start with a completely clean docker environment.***

#### Shut down compositions

Check which images, container, and serices are loaded and running.

```
$ dls
```

Start the cleanup by using docker-compose to clean up its images and containers.

```
$ dcpdown
```

Check which images, container, and serices are still loaded and running.

```
$ dls
```

#### Remove remaining containers

Stop all containers including running containers.

```
$ dcpruneall
```

Check all containers are stopped

```
$ dls
```

Expect the running containers and all containers lists to be empty.


#### Remove images

Remove all images without container (which should be all images at this point).

```
$ diprune
```

Check all images were removed

```
$ dls
```

Expect all lists to be empty.
